Given a graph $G$, and following the social balance theory roughly summarized as \enquote{the enemy
of my enemy is my friend}, assume that the labelling of $E$ is consistent with a two-clustering of
$V$. Namely, assume that $V$ can be partitioned in two clusters such that edges within each cluster
are positive and edges across clusters are negative. In that case, the following
\emph{multiplicative rule} holds: for any nodes $u$, $v$ in $V$, and any path $p$ between $u$ and
$v$ in $G$, the sign $\yuv$ is equal to the product of the signs along $p$ (we call this product the
parity of $p$ and denote it $\pi(p)$). While it is a simple and convenient model, this is too strong
of a requirement to be satisfied in practice. Therefore, we relax it by assuming that we start with
a consistent labeling $Y$ but can only observe a randomly perturbed version $Y'$ of $Y$.
Specifically, given a constant $q\in [0, \nicefrac{1}{2})$, each sign of $Y$ is flipped with a
probability smaller than $q$.

In this section, we are interested in active learning algorithms, that first query a subset
$\etrain$ of the edges, observe the signs in $\etrain$ and use them to predict the remaining signs.
More precisely, we focus on an algorithm that queries spanning tree $T$ of $G$ and predicts the sign
of an edge $(u,v) \in \etest = E \setminus E_T$ as the parity of $\pathtuv$. While this
can\Todo{state it formally then ;)} be stated more formally~\autocite[Section
4.1]{Cesa-Bianchi2012b}, it makes sense intuitively that since each sign has been potentially
flipped, the longer the path in $T$, the more likely its parity will be not be equal to the true
sign $\yuv{}$. Therefore we would like each such path to be as short as possible. In the following,
we describe a way to build spanning trees tailored for this situation.

\subsection{\gtx{}: a spanning tree designed for sign prediction}
\label{sub:gtx_a_simple_low_stretch_tree_construction}

\input{gtx_algorithm}

\subsection{Related works}
\label{sub:gtx_related_works}

\input{gtx_related}

\subsection{Empirical evaluation}
\label{sub:gtx_empirical_evaluation}

\input{gtx_experiments}

